Add seqtk mergepe and improve docs (#380)
snakemake/snakemake-wrappers: docs/contributing.rst

.. _contributing:

Contributing
============

We invite anybody to contribute to the Snakemake Wrapper Repository.
If you want to contribute we suggest the following procedure:

#. Fork the repository: https://github.com/snakemake/snakemake-wrappers
#. Clone your fork locally.
#. Locally, create a new branch: ``git checkout -b my-new-snakemake-wrapper``
#. Commit your contributions to that branch and push them to your fork: ``git push -u origin my-new-snakemake-wrapper``
#. Create a pull request.

The pull request will be reviewed and included as fast as possible.
Contributions should follow the coding style of the already present examples, i.e.:

> * provide a ``meta.yaml`` with name, description and author(s) of the wrapper

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* provide a ``meta.yaml`` that describes the wrapper (see the `meta.yaml documentation below <meta>`_)
```

> * provide an ``environment.yaml`` which lists all required software packages (the

Reviewer: Add info from PR template:
```suggestion
* provide an ``environment.yaml`` which lists all required software packages and follows
  `the respective best practices <https://stackoverflow.com/a/64594513/2352071>`_  (the
```

  packages should be available for installation via the
  `default anaconda channels <https://anaconda.org/anaconda>`_ or via the
  `conda <https://conda.io/docs/>`_ channels
  `bioconda <https://bioconda.github.io/recipes.html>`_ or
  `conda-forge <https://conda-forge.org/feedstocks/>`_.
  Other sustainable community maintained channels are possible as well.)

> * provide a minimal test case in a subfolder called ``test``, with an example

Reviewer: Add in the `wrapper.*` files here for a more complete description of requirements:
```suggestion
* add a `wrapper.py` or `wrapper.R` file that can deal with arbitrary `input:` and `output:` paths,
  handles all `params:` and executes the actual software call
* provide a minimal test case in a subfolder called ``test``, with an example
```

>   ``Snakefile`` that shows how to use the wrapper, some minimal testing data

Reviewer: Add info that is in PR template:
```suggestion
  ``Snakefile`` that shows how to use the wrapper (rule names should be descriptive and written
  in `snake_case <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Snake_case>`_), some minimal testing data
```

  (also check existing wrappers for suitable data) and add an invocation of the
  test in ``test.py``

> * follow the python `style guide <http://legacy.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008>`_,
>   using 4 spaces for indentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* ensure consistent `formatting`_ of Python files and `linting`_ of Snakefiles
```

> ``meta.yaml`` file

Reviewer: Add this for linking:

```suggestion
.. _meta:

``meta.yaml`` file
```

-------------------

> The following fields are available to use in the wrapper ``meta.yaml`` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following fields are available to use in the wrapper ``meta.yaml`` file. All, except
those marked optional, should be filled:
```

* **name**: The name of the wrapper.
* **description**: a description of what the wrapper does.
* **url**: URL to the wrapper tool webpage.
* **authors**: A `sequence`_ of names of the people who have contributed to the wrapper.
* **input**: A `mapping`_ or `sequence`_ of required inputs for the wrapper.
* **output**: A `mapping`_ or `sequence`_ of output(s) from the wrapper.

> * **params**: A `mapping`_ of parameters that can be used in the wrapper's ``params`` directive.
> * **notes**: Anything of note that does not fit into the scope of the other fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **params** (only applies when params are used): A `mapping`_ of parameters that can be used in the wrapper's ``params`` directive.
* **notes** (optional): Anything of note that does not fit into the scope of the other fields.
```

Example
^^^^^^^

.. code-block:: yaml

    name: seqtk mergepe
    description: Interleave two paired-end FASTA/Q files
    url: https://github.com/lh3/seqtk
    authors:
      - Michael Hall
    input:
      - paired fastq files - can be compressed.
    output:
      - >
        a single, interleaved FASTA/Q file. By default, the output will be compressed,
        use the param ``compress_lvl`` to change this.
    params:
      compress_lvl: >
        Regulate the speed of compression using the specified digit,
        where 1 indicates the fastest compression method (less compression)
        and 9 indicates the slowest compression method (best compression).
        0 is no compression. 11 gives a few percent better compression at a severe cost
        in execution time, using the zopfli algorithm. The default is 6.
    notes: Multiple threads can be used during compression of the output file with ``pigz``.

.. _sequence: https://yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html#id2759963
.. _mapping: https://yaml.org/spec/1.2/spec.html#id2759963

> Formatting

Reviewer: Add this for linking:
```suggestion
.. _formatting:

Formatting
```

----------

Please ensure Python files such as ``test.py`` and ``wrapper.py`` are formatted with
|black|_. Additionally, please format your test ``Snakefile`` with |snakefmt|_.

.. |black| replace:: ``black``
.. _black: https://github.com/psf/black
.. |snakefmt| replace:: ``snakefmt``
.. _snakefmt: https://github.com/snakemake/snakefmt

> Linting

Reviewer: Add this for linking:
```suggestion
.. _linting:

Linting
```

-------

Please `lint`_ your test ``Snakefile`` with::

    snakemake -s <path/to/wrapper/test/Snakefile> --lint

.. _lint: https://snakemake.readthedocs.io/en/stable/snakefiles/writing_snakefiles.html#best-practices

Testing locally
---------------

If you want to debug your contribution locally, before creating a pull request,

> we recommend adding your test case to the start of the list in ``test.py``, so

Reviewer 2: This is not necessary, because you can specifically target the test with test.py -k <testname>. Can you change these instructions accordingly?

Reviewer: Yeah, I didn't know this when I wrote these instructions. I'll make a suggestions for the wording.

> If you want to debug your contribution locally, before creating a pull request,
> we recommend adding your test case to the start of the list in ``test.py``, so
> that it runs first. Then, `install miniconda with the channels as described for
> bioconda <https://bioconda.github.io/#using-bioconda>`_ and set up an
> environment with the necessary dependencies and activate it::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want to debug your contribution locally (before creating a pull request), you can
install all dependencies with mamba. `Install miniconda with the channels as described for
bioconda <https://bioconda.github.io/#using-bioconda>`_ and set up an
environment with the necessary dependencies and activate it::
```

>   conda create -n test-snakemake-wrappers snakemake pytest conda snakefmt black

Reviewer 2: It would be better to use mamba instead of conda in these commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  mamba create -n test-snakemake-wrappers snakemake pytest conda snakefmt black
```

  conda activate test-snakemake-wrappers

> Afterwards, from the main directory of the repo, you can run the tests with::
> 
>   pytest test.py -v

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Afterwards, from the main directory of the repo, you can run your the tests by specifying
an expression that matches the names of your tests via  the ``-k`` option of ``pytest`` with::

  pytest test.py -v -k your_test1
```

If you use a keyboard interrupt after your test has failed, you will get all
the relevant stdout and stderr messages printed.

If you also want to test the docs generation locally, create another environment
and activate it::

>   conda create -n test-snakemake-wrapper-docs sphinx sphinx_rtd_theme pyyaml sphinx-copybutton

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  mamba create -n test-snakemake-wrapper-docs sphinx sphinx_rtd_theme pyyaml sphinx-copybutton
```

.. _contributing:

Contributing
============

We invite anybody to contribute to the Snakemake Wrapper Repository.
If you want to contribute we suggest the following procedure:

#. Fork the repository: https://github.com/snakemake/snakemake-wrappers
#. Clone your fork locally.
#. Locally, create a new branch: ``git checkout -b my-new-snakemake-wrapper``
#. Commit your contributions to that branch and push them to your fork: ``git push -u origin my-new-snakemake-wrapper``
#. Create a pull request.

> The pull request will be reviewed and included as fast as possible.

Author: I've updated that suggestion a little. If the change is ok with you feel free to commit it and then merge this :+1:
